Group Charter: Django Unchained

Scrum Meeting Times:
Monday - 10:30am
Tuesday - 10:30am
Wednesday - 10:30am
Thursday - 11am

Group Contact Info:
Samuel Gaudet – 
sngaudet@uwm.edu
262-893-2082
Beckett Frey –
6088867211
Caleb Elliott Wicker– 
cewicker@uwm.edu
(608)609-1110
Aaron Parker -
parkeraw@uwm.edu
(414) 630-3370
Bilal Ahmed – 
bahmed@uwm.edu
(414) 399-5719


Goals:
 1. To create a functioning program with no bugs, a good UI, that achieves the goals of the Product Owner. 
 2. To get a letter grade of "A" on the assignment. 
 3. To attain practical knowledge and experience of what it means to be a software engineer,
and to familiarize ourselves with the methods and practices that are required to pull
together a team project.

Work Norms:

1. Time commitment required by each group member: 
Time commitment is a difficult thing to determine, seeing as one member may be able to 
complete the same job in less amount of time. The goal is to complete the job. If one 
member is taking a substantial amount of time more than the others, it will be examined 
by the group as to whether his work load should be decreased.

2. Dealing with different work habits:
The work habits of any particular member will not be an issue as long as the member 
communicates progress, produces quality work, and the work is done by the dates 
established by the group. If the member does not meet these standards, procedures to deal 
with that member are further detailed in the ground rules.

3. Pull Requests:
A minimum of three group members must respond to pull requests within 24 hours, if this is not happening, the group should discuss in a meeting,
and decide if a modification of this rule is necessary. However, it is understood that this is the rule and best practice until such a meeting might happen.

4. Definition of done: 
A PBI will be considered done when it is - 
Passing unit test
Passing acceptance tests
Further, we trust every group member to move a task from, "In Progress", to "Completed" in the Trello board according to their best judgement.
If a group member is doing this incorrectly, it can be handled as directed in Group participation and work quality.


Ground Rules: 
  Meetings:

  1. Length of meetings:
Meetings may have to take as long as it takes, however meetings longer than 1 hours 
are discouraged. The purpose of meetings is to establish communication and give 
direction to the project. Meetings once a week should be enough unless it is decided by 
the group that additional meetings should be scheduled. This communication should take 
place through the group Teams chat. It is understood that if a meeting takes too long, members 
may have to leave for classes or work obligations. This type of situation will not 
constitute an infraction.

  2. Missing a meeting: 
It's okay to miss two meetings with a valid excuse. If a member misses more than that, 
absences will be considered infractions and be documented. Acceptable justification of a missed meeting includes, 
but is not limited to: injury, illness, family emergency, work, conflicting class schedule, or death (yourself or other). 
If a meeting is missed for any other reason, the affected group members will decide as to 
whether the reason for missing the meeting is acceptable or in need of disciplinary action.
If someone knows they're going to be unavailable for a Daily Scrum, 
they can be considered present if they send in their answers to the three questions, and tasks they volunteer for, before the meeting begins.

  3. Tardiness to meetings:
If someone is not present for a meeting after 5 minutes, they are considered to be absent, which is an infraction.
If an individual arrives at a meeting after the start time and the meeting has yet to get into purposeful conversation 
then it may be overlooked. 

  4. Phone/Food/Drink during meetings:
We understand life is busy, and you may wish to multitask during a meeting. We will not regulate things such as this.
However, it is highly encouraged that each member do what is necessary to pay attention to the entire meeting. As such,
phone use that is not diretly related to the meeting is discouraged. Food and/or drink is less likely to interfere with concentration however,
and is more acceptable. 

  Group communication and interaction: 

  1. Regular Communicaton:
Regular communication should occur throughout the Sprint via the Microsoft Teams group chat. 
This communication should include simple updates on ones progress as they progress through tasks,
especially for tasks that affect the Team's progress as a whole. If a member forgets to post progress, any 
member can send an inquiry email to the person. If the email is not responded 
to in 24 hours, the group will begin to take on that member's responsibilities through the 
decision making process stated in part six of this section. If the member has a good 
reason for not responding, it will be taken into consideration as to whether or not this will be considered an infraction.
If however, the member responds within the 24 hour time period stating they forgot, no disciplinary 
action will be taken. If a member is having problems with their portion of the work, they 
should let the rest of the group knew immediately so they can received any needed help 
as soon as possible. 

  2. Group communication on tardiness/missed meetings and meeting information:
If a member has prior knowledge of a missed meeting or tardiness of a day or more, that 
member shall send a message to the Microsoft Teams group chat signifying this. If it is the day of the 
meeting and a group member is going to miss the meeting or knows they are going to be 
tardy by more than five minutes, that member shall send a message to the Teams group chat informing them of the situation. 
Failure to do so more than once will result in an infraction. 

  3. Communication ethics:
There shall be an understanding among group members that all opinions or input by any 
individual member is valued and will be respected, even if disagreed with. People and/or 
their opinions shall not in any way be degraded or dismissed but all opinions shall have 
equal consideration. If a member feels his opinions are being rejected without good 
reason, he has a right to bring it up to the group. The group will 
then discuss the situation and either reconsider their opinions, or make a case as to why 
the members opinions are not being used. If there is such a disagreement, the note taker 
or agenda maker will record the situation as well as the member who feels disregarded. If 
this situation happens more than three times the member has a right to go to the TA and 
state their case. If the problem is not solved by the TA, the opportunity is then open to 
state their case to Professor Rock.

  4. Group structure:
Each member of the Team has a similar skill set, and as such, there will be no specific Team roles.
Group members who specialize in certain areas are encouraged to volunteer for tasks related to their areas of expertise.
In the context of Scrum, there is no group leader, and everyone should view each other as equals. 
If anyone feels that a specific group member is acting dictatorially, they should bring this up in a meeting.
The group will then discuss this, and decide if it consitutes an infraction.

  5. Decision making:
Any decisions which need to be made about the project or project direction must be unanimous, 
that is, if one person does not agree to the decision, we cannot consider that decision made. However, disciplinary 
action will be made by a majority vote, seeing as the offending group member in question is not likley to vote against themself. 

  6. Group decisions on delegation:
The delegation of responsibilities to group members will be decided in the following 
fashion. All tasks and responsibilities will be discussed as a group. Then 
each group member has the opportunity to volunteer for the task they may want. 
We trust that all group members will be willing to take on a fair and equally distributed amount of work.
However, if any group member feels this is not happening, they may bring it up in a meeting, and the group
will discuss and treat it as an infraction if they deem necessary against any group member(s) not taking on enough work (tasks).

Group participation and work quality:

  1. Group participation:
See item 6 of Group Communication and Interaction. Further, 
if one member is taking on 5 or more tasks more, or 5 or less than the other group member's average or misses a due date, it will be examined
by the group as to whether their work load should be increased/decreased, or whether this may be grounds for an infraction.

  2. Work not up to standard:
Group standards, regarding quality and timeliness of work, are important to uphold if we 
aim to succeed as a group. With goal 2 in mind we should always be putting forth the 
effort necessary to submit our best work. However, if there is a problem it should be 
handled in the following manner. It is understandable that at some point in this project 
someone may not be able to put in the time or effort necessary to meet group standards. If 
that should happen he must notify the group as soon as possible so the task can be 
redistributed, using the system established in group decisions and delegation, and the 
group can continue functioning at its highest level. If he continues to repeat this behavior 
it may result in an infraction depending on the severity.  

  3. Group members unprepared:
It is understood that people are busy with other classes and school work. If by group 
consensous it is obvious that a member is unprepared for a meeting, and their 
unpreparedness creates a hindrance to the group and project, then it will be considered an infraction.

  4. Workload too heavy:
If, considering the time restraints and number of group members actively participating, the group feels there is not 
sufficient enough time to complete the project, a plea of mercy will be sent to the Rock via email 
and in person which logs the details of the amount of work to be done, the status of how 
far we are, and why we cant complete it in that time period. 

5. Help:
If someone says they are struggling in the group chat, other team members should endeavor to reach out to offer help within 24 hours, preferably sooner.

6. Task Ownership:
If someone has claimed a task, another group member must not work on that task without consulting with the person who claimed it.
If someone is violating this rule, it should be brought up in a meeting, and the Team will decide if it constitutes an infraction.

Disciplinary Procedures:

  1. Infractions:
An INFRACTION occurs when one or more of the ground rules are broken, or the Team decides something is an infraction in a meeting.
There will be a document to log infractions (if any). Two or more documented infractions will lead to disciplinary action.
All infractions are treated with the same severity, as such DjangoUnchained makes no distinction between minor and major group offences.

  2. Disciplinary Log:
There will be a document to log infrations (if any).

  3. Disciplinary Action Sequence of Events:
  First, an email must be sent to the student with all group members cc'd with the goal of attempting to understand and resolve the issue.
  Second, if there is another infraction there will be another email with all group members cc'd, with the goal of giving the student another chance to resolve the issues.
  Third, if we feel it hasn't been resolved we will bring it to the TA, Apoorv.
  Fourth, if it still hasn't been resolved we will bring it to Professor Rock.
  Finally, if there is one more infraction, and Rock has not removed them from the group, that person will no longer be considered a member of the group.

We, DjangoUnchained, agree with the Group Charter and will try our best to uphold it.
Name Date
Samuel Gaudet 11-12-23
Caleb Wicker 11-13-23
Beckett Frey 11-13-23
Aaron Parker 11-13-23
Bilal Ahmed 11-15-23










